Update categorise of accounts and add new images (#666)
codatio/codat-docs: docs/lending/portal/categorize-accounts.md

---
title: "Categorize accounts in Portal"
description: "Learn how to view and change automatically proposed categories for enhanced balance sheet and profit and loss statements"
---
With Enhanced Financials, Codat automatically suggests a category for each account that appears in the enhanced Profit and Loss and Balance Sheet. 

Every account is assigned one of Codat’s 270+ categories.  If you disagree with the suggested category, you can change it to a more suitable one. This only impacts the category field in Lending and does not lead to any changes in the underlying accounting platform.

You can view all available categories proposed for accounts and, where relevant, recategorize them in the <a href="https://app.codat.io/" target="_blank">Codat Portal</a>. 

1. Navigate to **Companies**, then click the company that requires categorization review. Select **Products > Lending** in the side menu. Finally, click **Categorize accounts**. 

![An image of the Lending portal view and the categorization button](/img/lending/acct-categorization-v3-1.png)

> 2. Here, you can view the categories for each account.  These are ordered by _importance_, which is determined by the current account balance and our confidence that we have correctly categorised this account.  An account with a high _importance_ can affect the [Enhanced Financials](/lending/enhanced-financials/overview) more than an account with a low importance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can view the categories for each account.  These are ordered by _impact_ by default, which is determined by the current account balance and our confidence in our automatic categorization.  Accounts with a high _impact_  effect the [Enhanced Financials](/lending/enhanced-financials/overview) more, so its worth confirming these accounts.
```

![An image of the Lending Categorization view in the Portal](/img/lending/acct-categorization-v3-2.png)

> 3. To change the category of an account, select the accounts using the tick box and click **Recategorize**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To change the category of an account, select the accounts using the checkbox and click **Recategorize**. 
```

>    Choose an appropriate category from the proposed five levels and click **Recategorize**.  This saves the newly assigned category.  Once you have confirmed or edited an account, the _importance_ will change to zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Choose an appropriate category from the proposed five levels and click **Recategorize**.  This saves the newly assigned category.  Once you have confirmed or edited an account, the _impact_ will change to zero.
```
